---
layout: page
title: Call for Papers
permalink: /call_for_papers/
---

Download Call for Papers as [PDF](/files/QUDOS2020-CfP.pdf) or [TXT](/files/QUDOS2020-CfP.txt).

![QUDOS2020-Flyer]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/QUDOS2020-CfP-thumbnail.png "CSE/QUDOS 2020 CfP Flyer")

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        Joint CSE/QUDOS Workshop 2020
             5th Workshop on Continuous Software Engineering 
                                      and 
           6th International Workshop on Quality-Aware DevOps
    
                             Co-located with the
    14th European Conference on Software Architecture (ECSA 2020)
    
                                L'Aquila, Italy
                             September 14-18, 2020 
                         (exact day to be announced)

   https://cse2020.swc-rwth.de/ - http://2020.qudos-workshop.org/
                     https://twitter.com/qudos_workshop

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DON'T STOP ARCHITECTING!

Please check the message from the ECSA 2020 General Chair on COVID-19: https://ecsa2020.disim.univaq.it/attending/message-from-general-chair

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



SCOPE AND TOPICS

DevOps extends the agile development principles to include the full stack of 
software services, from design to execution, enabling and promoting 
collaboration of operations, quality assurance, and development engineers 
throughout the entire service lifecycle. Ultimately, DevOps is a process that 
enables faster releases of a better product to the end user. DevOps encompasses
a set of values, principles, methods, practices, and tools, to accelerate 
software delivery to the customer by means of infrastructure as code, 
continuous integration and deployment, automated testing and monitoring, or new
architectural styles such as microservices. In the end all common software 
engineering activities, organizational forms and processes have to be 
questioned, adapted and extended to ensure continuous and unobstructed software
development, this is the aim of continuous software engineering (CSE)research. 
Current software engineering research mainly deals with the development aspects
of DevOps and CSE, focusing on development methods, practices, and tools, 
leaving the quality assurance aspects of DevOps behind.

Even though development practices such as testing (at all levels) are 
instrumental in producing quality software, they mostly deal with the 
functional correctness, while quality assurance deals with a more broadly 
defined concept of quality, of which functional correctness is just one 
dimension. However, DevOps needs methods and tools that enable systematic 
assessment, prediction, and management of software quality in other dimensions 
as well, including performance, reliability, safety, survivability, or cost of 
ownership.

The QUDOS workshop provides a forum for experts from academia and industry to 
present and discuss novel quality-aware methods, practices and tools for 
DevOps. On the other hand, the goal of the CSE workshop is to present and 
discuss innovative solutions, ideas and experiences in the area of continuity 
along the entire software engineering lifecycle hence, Continuous Software 
Engineering. 

For the second time, CSE and QUDOS join forces to foster cross-fertilization 
and bootstrap an even bigger, stronger community around the urgently emerging 
topics they are both addressing from different angles. Especially industry 
practitioners are invited to join this community and present challenges, 
solutions and lessons learned from real and complex projects.

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:
 * Foundations: DevOps Engineering & Quality Assurance Methodologies; 
   integration with lifecycle management; automated tool chains; 
   patterns & smells;
 * Architecture: Scalability and capacity planning; scale-out architectures;
   cloud-native application design; microservice-based architectures; 
   model-driven architectures; architecture evolution and erosion
 * Development and Tooling: Software models and requirements in early
   software development phases; automatic functional and non-functional 
   testing; languages, annotations and profiles for quality assurance; 
   analysis, verification and prediction; optimization-based architecture 
   design; Infrastructure-as-Code
 * Operation and Maintenance: Application performance monitoring; model-driven
   performance measurement and benchmarking; feedback-based quality assurance; 
   capacity planning and forecasting; performance anti-pattern detection; 
   traceability and versioning; trace and log analysis; software regression and
   testing; security and privacy; software health and self-healing; 
   containerization and immutable infrastructure
 * Continuous X: Continuous delivery and Continuous experimentation; deployment 
   pipelines, canary releases and partial rollouts; A/B testing; performance 
   and scalability testing via shadow launches
 * Applications and Experiences: Case Studies in cloud computing, Big Data, and
   IoT/Edge Computing; standardization and interoperability; novel application 
   domains, etc.
 * All other topics related to quality in DevOps and agile service delivery models

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SUBMISSION GUIDELINES

Authors are invited to submit original, unpublished papers that are not being 
considered in another forum.  We solicit full papers (max. 12 pages), short 
papers (max. 5 pages), and industry abstracts (max. 2 pages). All submissions 
must conform to the [Springer Proceedings format (LNCS/CCIS)](https://www.springer.com/gp/authors-editors/conference-proceedings/conference-proceedings-guidelines). 

Each full paper submission will be reviewed by at least three members of the 
program committee.

Papers should be submitted via EasyChair at:
https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=csequdos2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ORGANIZATION AND SUPPORT (partly to be confirmed)

At least one author of each accepted paper is required to attend the workshop 
and present the paper. Presented papers will be published by Springer in the ECSA 2020 workshop proceedings.

The Joint CSE/QUDOS Workshop 2020 is organized and technically sponsored by the Research Group (RG) and the DevOps Performance Working Group of the [Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC RG)](http://research.spec.org), and by the consortium of the EU project [RADON](http://radon-h2020.eu/). The workshop is also supported by the [IFIP Working Group on Service Oriented Systems](http://ifip-wg-sos.deib.polimi.it/)  and the [GI Working Group Microservices and DevOps](https://ak-msdo.gi.de/).


